# Creating a blog website
Due to time constraints, I am initially making a simple blog website. Later, I plan to add MongoDB, Express, and React.

For simplicity, the site will only have one page. If the page has no search param named `id`, then it will list all the blogs; otherwise, it will list the contents of the specified blog.

To display the content of each blog, I _obviously_ have to store it somewhere. For that, I had 2 options.
1. I could store it in a seperate file,
2. I could store the contents of all blogs in a single file,

For simplicity, and because I wanted to keep my sanity when adding posts or maintaining the site, I went with a mixed approach. There will be one file which will contain the meta data about each of the blog posts, then there will be the blogs individual files will will have its content.

Initially, the page will read the metadata to display a list of blogs from which a user can select a particular blog to read. Then the page will fetch the content of the specific log the user wants to read, and display it.

But now comes the question of *how* the content of each blog is stored.

Do I use a HTML file? That would mean writing all the tags that are required for HTML. Which is tedious, ~~and very boring~~.

Instead, I can store the content in [markdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown), a plain-text formatting language. That makes it easier to write the blogs for me, but a browser doesn't understand markdown. It can only understand HTML and CSS.

So, I used a markdown to HTML converter called [Showdown](https://showdownjs.com/). It has a lot of options, such as `customizedHeaderId`, `tasklists`, etc. but the default configuration already covers most of what I need, so there’s not much extra setup required. 

As for the CSS, I have kept the styles to a minimum for now.

And that is how I made a blog website.